There was much joy for the Indian supporters in the City of Joy as Sourav Ganguly's men held their nerve amid a sea of emotions at the Eden Gardens. 

Chasing India's 281, England fell short by 22 runs in the first ODI of the six-match series, here, on Saturday. Yet, as the dust settled on a duel fought with much passion and pride, there were more heroes than one. England opener Marcus Trescothick was every inch a winner too for a sensational hundred (121) under pressure. 

The ease with which the left-handed Trescothick rolled along was stunning. Striking the ball effortlessly, despatching Harbhajan over the mid-wicket fence and dumping Kumble past long on ropes, he was one man on a mission. Booming blows greeted by a muzzled silence by the crowd. 

Driving the pacemen into submission, taking on the spinners, and eventually reaching a rollicking hundred with a swept four off Tendulkar, Trescothick was in an inspired mood alright. The Man of the Match raised his arms in triumph to savour his century and it had been a stirring display. 

In the event, it a pity that such a glorius innings ended on a sad note, for the delivery from Srinath, to which Trescothick (121, 109b, 13x4, 2x6) was adjudged leg-before by umpire SK Sharma, appeared to pitch outside the leg-stump before jagging back. The turning point of the contest - England was going strong at 224 for four in the 36th over. Considering that the next highest England score was skipper Hussain's 25, the result of the match was never in question once Trescothick began the long walk back. An indisposed Graham Thorpe was missed even more. 

England was off to a disastrous start when Srinath trapped the left-handed Nick Knight (0) leg-before. Things could have been worse had a diving Laxman at second slip latched on to a sharp catch when Trescothick (2) edged Ajit Agarkar. A costly lapse it proved to be, but then the Indians got away in the end. 

Dinesh Mongia steals the show. 

Earlier, Dinesh Mongia chose the right stage and the occasion to signal his comeback to the National side, after India opted to bat. Coming in at No3, Mongia (71, 75b, 7x4, 1x6) kept the scoreboard ticking without ever appearing adventurous. The left-hander was solid, he was also busy. 

Mongia was quick to cash in on any lapse in length or direction from the pacemen and used his feet quite beautifully against the spinners, left-armer Ashley Giles and offie Jeremy Snape, often striking them straight and high down the ground. 

Towards the end of the Indian innings, another comeback southpaw Hemang Badani sizzled with a delightful cameo (35, 32b, 3x4) after England threatened a comeback with India slumping from 232 for four to 242 for seven. 

On a flat track, the Indian batsmen, apart from Mongia, failed to consolidate. Ganguly (42, 58b, 4x4, 1x6) caressed Darren Gough through the covers and some old memories came rushing back, Tendulkar (36, 43b, 6x4) had the crowd buzzing when he whipped Hoggard through mid-wicket, and VVS Laxman's (25) square-drive off Flintoff screamed for attention all three fell to indescreet strokes. And the dangerous Virender Sehwag (29) lived dangerously before swinging across a straight Hoggard delivery. 

Despites glimpses of success, it was a day when the English attack appeared uninspiring - the team was also docked an over for slow over-rate. Giles, whose over-the-wicket leg-stump line is a non-starter in this format, was not allowed to settle down by the quick-footed Indians and the pacemen were never going to assume threatening proportions on this surface. Actually, the Indians did not bowl any better. 
