England took a bodyblow on the eve of the second Test, when Graham Thorpe 
was forced to fly back home to "attend to personal problems of an urgent 
nature", in the words of the ECB media release. 

Ironically, on this day a year ago Thorpe played a gritty 64 not out to 
shepherd England to its first series win in Pakistan in 39 years, at Karachi's 
National Stadium. 

Michael Vaughan came into the side as replacement, while the spin of Ashley
Giles was brought in to replace the largest ineffective seam of Jimmy Ormond. 

India meanwhile made the expected changes -- Javagal Srinath coming in for
Iqbal Siddiqui, while Sanjay Bangar made way for Virender Sehwag to give 
India a very long batting lineup at the expense of the support seamer. 

The Motera wicket -- red, with the barest smattering of grass -- reminded 
you of the one on which Javagal Srinath destroyed South Africa in 1996, 
with a burst of six for 21 to bowl India to a 64-run win. It's hard, with 
even bounce early on, not much lateral movement for seamers, a tendency to 
take spin early and as the game gets into days four and five and the pitch 
increasingly dusts up, to spin more, but also more slowly. 

Nasser Hussain looked as surprised as everyone else when he actually won a 
Test toss -- and gratefully opted for first strike on a track made to order 
for batting. 

Openers Marcus Trescothick and Mark Butcher, who in this series already have 
a 100-plus opening stand, played percentage cricket -- very patient in 
defence, perfect selection of the right ball to hit, and most importantly, 
superb understanding in the way they used the short single to transfer 
pressure from themselves and onto the bowlers. 

Srinath bowled as well as he did in South Africa without, however, getting 
the same amount of assistance off the deck. The real revelation was Yohannan 
-- very full length, a noticeable step up in pace from his first Test 
performance, and some well directed bouncers, one of which had Trescothick 
mishooking into no-man's land. 

Harbhajan Singh was brought in as early as the 10th over (England 33/0), and 
found turn from the first ball he bowled. And Kumble, when introduced, found 
bounce and just enough turn on the googlies in particular to make life 
interesting. With both openers concentrating better than they did in Mohali,
neither spinner managed to do more than check the run-rate, however. 

The last over before lunch saw Trescothick lose it a bit, taking a sweep, 
better spelt swipe, at Kumble's flipper to miss and get rapped on the pad 
in front of middle and off. Plumb, you would have thought. Umpire Ian 
Robinson didn't. 

England went in to lunch on 79/0 in 29 overs at a decent 2.82 per over, with 
Butcher batting 35 (97 balls) and Trescothick 36 (70). 

Spin at one end seam at the other was -- more accurately, remained -- the 
preferred strategy for the Indians. Srinath did manage to find the odd edge,
 but there really was little in the first day track to keep him interested. 
Kumble managed to find the bat pad -- short, however, of the short square 
leg fielder. And meanwhile, the steady accumulation by both openers continued 
-- with Trescothick getting to his fifty (96 balls) ahead of his partner. 

With England going past the 100-mark, Ganguly finally decided to marry the 
two spinners. Trescothick greeted Harbhajan's re-entry with a superb sweep,
getting under the ball and lifting over midwicket for a six. 

Trescothick's batting in fact flowered during this session. Against Harbhajan,
 it was the controlled sweep, and a willingness to come down the track to 
flight. Against Kumble, Trescothick opted for the big stride forward, taking
 him to the pitch of the ball for his drives and negating any bounce the 
leggie might get. Good solid technique, and Trescothick -- with 66 and 46
 to his name from Mohali -- settled down during the afternoon session to a
 display of controlled aggression. 

At the other end, Butcher seemed to be settling down as well. Kumble, however,
 took the wicket an over after Butcher had got to his 50 (129 balls). An 
angled wrong 'un had the opener pushing tentatively, feathering the edge 
through to the keeper (124/1 in the 40th over), ending a partnership of 124
 off 240 deliveries that set things up nicely for England. 

Nasser Hussain seemed in a bit of a hurry, aiming a needless pull at a Kumble
googly almost as soon as he came to the crease. In the event, though, it was
Umpire Robinson who got the wicket. Hussain misread a Kumble googly that hit
middle and turned towards leg, got it on the pad and Robinson figured the
 ball would somehow have reversed course and hit the leg stump (1 off 7, and 
148/2 England). 

Michael Vaughan came to the wicket shaking little bits of rust off himself. 
With four round his bat, the number four struggled against the spinners, 
pushing tentatively at spin of the off and leg varieties. But the real spin
 came from -- who else? -- Umpire Robinson. This time, Vaughan pushed blind
 at another Kumble googly (the wrong 'un seemed to be the leggie's staple 
diet today), the ball turned in, missed the bat by a good two inches, hit 
pad and elbow and popped up. Short square held, and Robinson upheld (Vaughan
 11 off 38, England 172/3). 

Shortly thereafter, England went in to tea with 176/3 on the board, having 
made 96 runs in the 26 overs that were bowled in the session, for the loss 
of three wickets. Trescothick walked back with a superb 99 against his name
off 151 deliveries (and besides his fluent play to spin, the feature of his
innings was the ease with which he placed and ran the singles), while 
Ramprakash had spent 7 deliveries without breaking his duck. 

The first over after tea was a beauty. Trescothick batting 99 -- and Saurav 
Ganguly piled on the pressure by bringing in the field, to dry up the single.
Kumble responded with a stream of five successive googlies, twice beating the
bat, twice forcing hurried pushes until finally the batsman, seemingly
desperate to get his century, cut tentatively at the fifth of the wrong
'uns and got the touch through to the keeper (99 off 156, England 176/4). 

In the very next over, Andrew Flintoff gave Kumble his fifth wicket of the 
innings, and 18th five-for of his career, when he pushed hard at a flipper 
(apparently, the lesson of Mohali that you need soft hands to play spin 
hadn't yet been learnt), got the edge and put silly point in business 
(0 off 2, England 180/5). Kumble had at this point got a wicket in each
of three successive overs either side of lunch. 

India missed a bit of a bet at this point, prolonging the seam of Srinath for 
just long enough to allow Ramprakash -- on nought when Flintoff was out -- 
to settle before putting the two spinners in combined harness. 

Sweeping at Harbhajan seemed to have become the mantra for the Englishmen --
Mark Butcher produced a beauty, flat-batting one from line of off and hitting
with the turn to sail it over the square leg boundary. For his part, White 
favoured the inside-out drive, and it began to look as though the Brits had 
learnt that the way to play off spin is with the feet moving forward. The 
6the wicket pair pushed the rate of scoring right along, with Ramprakash in 
particular stroking very freely. 

Tendulkar came back in the 73rd over -- and immediately took out Ramprakash 
with a beauty. The first ball was the wrong one, Ramprakash went on the back
foot aiming to push to the off, the ball turned back, skidded through, slid 
past the bat, brushed the pad and crashed into off stump to end a promising 
59-run partnership, Ramprakash walking back with 37 (49 balls, six fours and
 a six) against his name (England 239/6). 

Craig White and James Foster then dug in to bat England back out of the hole 
-- and White, in particular, went about his work in a fashion that reminded 
you of his outings in Pakistan last year, when he used his feet well, in 
attack and defence, against Saqlain Mushtaq and company. Foster at the other
end was content to keep his end up as the Indians decided against using the
new ball when due, and served up a straight diet of spin. 

England closed on 277/6 off the allotted 90 overs -- a decent scoring rate 
of 3.11. The final session produced 101 runs for the loss of three wickets,
 off 25 overs, with Foster unbeaten 15 (49) and White walking back on a very
 well compiled 42 (113). 

It was a performance that bettered -- in terms of runs, and the application 
that was brought to its accumulation -- Mohali by a long way. Given the 
conditions, though, England should have done much better -- and if it didn't,
then all credit goes to Anil Kumble for his sustained hostility, and to Ian 
Robinson for continued incompetence that saw, on day one, three bad decisions.

