I'm not saying I was a fly on the wall of the Indian dressing room this 
morning, or that I then buzzed over to the England camp for a bit of a 
listen. 

Extrapolating from the way the fifth day went, though, if I had been that 
mythical fly, this is what I probably would have heard.

Indian think tank: Yes I know we spoke -- alright, I spoke -- about white
-washing England 3-0 and all that, but you have to understand that all that 
is merely playing to the galleries, and unless we play to the galleries 
there won't be any spectators in those galleries and without spectators 
turning up, our sponsors are going to get pretty pissed off. So, as long 
as we all are in agreement that the "whitewash" business was strictly 
for public consumption, let's move on. Simple gameplan for the day -- we go 
out there and we do what we didn't do in the first innings, which is, 
concentrate the hell out of things, remember Mahatma Gandhi, be non-violent 
towards the ball. After all, all it takes is a mishit when trying to tap a 
full toss back to the bowler for a wicket to fall and we all know what 
happens to our team -- one wicket falls and it's like that nursery rhyme, 
assha, busha, all fall down! So guys, caution at all times, no rushes of 
the blood. In fact, no rush, period! You go out there and you practise for 
Bangalore, got that?". 

England think tank: Yes, I know they've been saying we should have gone for 
the bowling after lunch yesterday, piled up runs quicker and then gone at 
the Indians hard but what do they know? This is the team that beat Australia 
and as long as we can go home without having lost all three Tests, that is 
a fair result. True we did come back from 1-0 down in Pakistan this time last 
year, but Andy Caddick is off rocking his baby and Goughie is spending 
quality time with his family and Alec is, well, being Alec. Different ball 
game, chaps, last thing we need is for Tendulkar to go ballistic and maybe 
fire up Laxman and Sehwag as well, so we go out there and sit on the splice. 
Giles, you've got a big role to play, lots of bowling to do and this morning 
I saw this spot about a foot and a half outside leg stump that looked like 
a nice spot to land them on. Let's go out there and defend like heck, guys 
-- remember the Alamo, remember Dunkirk, remember whatever the heck you want 
 but don't forget, we need a draw here". 

In the event, two teams who were both scared of trying to win settled for a 
draw. And a crowd that had come -- their coming to the ground being a classic 
example of the triumph of hope over experience -- to cheer good cricket 
ended up getting their jollies booing everyone in sight. 

A certain circumspection was expected in the first hour of play, with Hoggard 
and Flintoff working up a fair head of steam. The spinners then came on and 
initially, both Dasgupta and Das played a few fluent shots, the former 
preferring the cover-drive while the latter opted to rock back and square 
drive or cut. 

Das got to 1000 runs in Test cricket in his 15th Test, he got his 50 off the 
last ball before lunch (112 balls, 7 fours, Dasgupta batting 42/116) and 
India went in to lunch on 92/0, with 282 still to get and all ten wickets 
in hand. 

Nice platform, right? Right -- so both batsmen stood rock solid on that 
platform, and played out ten overs after lunch for 11 runs. And at that, 
they were just warming to the task. 

At the other end, Ashley Giles took to bowling so far outside leg stump 
that wicket-keeper Foster, who had started out by standing just in line 
with leg stump, was soon in a leg slip position. 

It was now a question of who would get bored first -- and as it turned out, 
that was Hussain. Who got his bowler to go back to around the wicket, with 
four men in close positions on the off side -- slip, gully and two silly 
points! Interestingly, as soon as Giles tried the new line, he began making 
the ball 'go', finding the edge time and again and making you wonder what 
the idea till then was. 

The wicket finally fell in the 55th over (48th of the day), when Das tucked 
Dawson around to fine leg and looked for a second. Giles, the fielder running 
in off the line, produced a flat, hard throw to the keeper to catch the 
batsman off his ground (58 off 159, India 119/1) and we were treated to 
the spectacle of an Indian crowd actually cheering an Indian batsman's fall. 

That might seem a bit harsh on Das, who did bat with a lot of composure. 
100+ opening partnerships are not so common in Indian cricket that one such 
as this should pass unremarked and unapplauded -- but against that, there 
was the tedium of the batting post-lunch, calculated to put even the most 
mild-mannered crowd's back up. 

Those cheers turned into boos when Rahul Dravid walked out at one drop -- 
public expectation obviously was that India would send out its strokeplayers, 
Laxman, Tendulkar and Sehwag, to have a bit of a bat. The ask at that point 
was 258 runs in just around 260 deliveries -- a good opportunity to use 
one-day skills to mount a chase, while holding back Dravid to hold things 
up in the unlikely event the England bowlers, on this deck, skittled out 
three or four quick wickets. 

India -- or more accurately, the team -- had however made up its mind that 
it would be a draw, come hell, high water, or ordinary bowling on an 
unresponsive track. 

Dasgupta, shortly after the departure of his partner, perished pushing Dawson 
to silly point and again, the crowd went into an orgy of celebration. Again, 
there was a tinge of unfairness about the collective joy on display -- after 
years of mourning the fact that every team bar India has a keeper who can 
bat, we seem to have finally found one who can bat like a seasoned pro 
(60 off 190, India 124/2 in the 61st over). 

By then, however, Dravid and Dasgupta had managed to use up 35 deliveries 
while adding 5 runs. The ask at the fall of the second wicket -- not that 
there was any relevance any longer, since no one was even remotely interested  
in trying -- was 250 off 216 deliveries. 

Tendulkar walked out, and the crowd finally got something to cheer about -- 
but not for long, as both Dravid and Tendulkar settled down to practise their 
defence against all comers. It would have become interesting had the umpire 
given Tendulkar out padding up, without offering a shot, to a ball close 
enough to off to put the LBW up as an option, and a shaky Ganguly had been 
forced to come out -- but by then, umpires too had gone into a light slumber. 

At tea, India were 140/2. Tendulkar 8/39, Dravid 10/48, 248 still to get, 
more accurately, 24 more overs to practise against. The session produced 
48 runs in 35 overs, and if that sounds dull, then the actual play on view 
was even duller. 

There was a bit of a bustle when in the 79th over, Tendulkar -- who seemed 
rather fretful at having to pat half-volleys defensively back to the bowler 
(makes me wonder just who hatched this defend-till-death gameplan and laid 
it down as the day's diktat?) woke up to smack Dawson off the back foot 
through point for four, then leant forward onto his other foot and caressed 
him through extra cover for another one. But then, there is an odd oasis 
even in the dry as dust Sahara desert. Shortly after, the insistence on 
defending at deliveries that at other times he would have rocked back and 
smashed saw him grope well forward at a Dawson off break and give the bat 
pad at short square. (44 runs in 156 balls the partnership, 168/3 the score). 

Another thought occurs: If the idea all along was to play out the day, 
wouldn't it have made much more cricketing sense for Saurav Ganguly to 
have come out at the fall of the first wicket, rather than when he actually 
did, with ten overs to go in play? No player in this side -- in fact, very 
few players in international cricket at the moment -- need practise as much 
as the Indian captain does. And by the same token, Virender Sehwag at number 
four, for the same reason -- a chance for the batsman to get a decent outing,
shake off the rust of the two 'bans' one official one not?. 

And now that we're on a roll with "thought occured"s, one final one: Just a 
month ago, we witnessed New Zealand and Australia, twice in three Tests, 
brush aside the rain and conjure wildly exciting Test matches. Here, in front 
of larger crowds and with the sun blazing down throughout, two teams got 
together to fashion one of the dullest draws in recent cricket history. 

Speaks volumes, doesn't it, for the patience of the Indian cricket spectator.

