India has for long now been looking for a wicket-keeper who can bat. 

Deep Dasgupta can bat with the best of them. 

Is it time for India to now start looking for a wicket-keeper who can keep?. 
Because both in South Africa and in this series thus far, it has been very 
evident that wicket-keeping is not Dasgupta's forte. 

This is not to run down, or write off, an emerging young player. But on the 
basis of four and a half Tests thus far, wicket-keeping is rapidly emerging 
into a serious problem -- the seriousness being magnified by the fact 
that India in any case struggles to take wickets, and a shaky keeper lowers 
the confidence levels of bowlers appreciably. 

This morning, Dasgupta let off Craig White, twice. And the all-rounder, who 
has been tipped by his captain as a likely lad with the bat, cashed in with 
his first century in Test cricket, improving on the 93 he had made against 
Pakistan in Lahore a year ago. 

India began the morning with spin, despite the presence of some overnight 
due on the track. Harbhajan Singh was duly carted over wide long on by White, 
but immediately thereafter, he produced a beauty -- a 'doosra' with 
flight and turn, bringing White, then batting 48, forward, beating him and 
finding the edge only for Dasgupta to make a mess of a simple take. 

The new ball was duly taken and Srinath, in particular, again produced a 
very sharp spell, characterised by the away-swinger he has of late mastered. 
One such delivery hit a perfect length, kicked, seamed away, found the 
thick edge of White's bat -- and Dasgupta put down his second sitter of the 
morning, this one coming at him at a very straightforward shoulder height. 
Later in the same over, a quick bouncer drew White into the hook and
out at long leg, it was Kumble who stood immobile for too long, searching 
for the ball and finally being too late to grab. England, at that point, 
were 324/6 -- and for the rest of the morning and most of the afternoon,
the Indians sweltered in the field as White made them 
pay for their carelessness. 

With Foster playing an innings of concentration and White batting fluently
against pace and spin alike, the pair set a new 7th wicket record for 
England against India, the century stand coming off 232 balls as 
England moved to 342/6. 

Shortly thereafter, however, Kumble had Foster driving at a ball not 
full enough for the shot. Tendulkar at mid on lunged into a dive and 
pulled off a superb catch to end the keeper-batsman's resistance, Foster 
going for a well compiled 40 (119 balls) in the 114th over, England 344/7 
at that point. 

Two runs later, Ashley Giles misread a Kumble googly, got the edge, and 
Dasgupta again was in no position to hold. 

England went in to lunch on 356/7, having added 78 to the overnight score 
off 29 overs in the morning session for the loss of Foster. White, making 
the most of the chances gifted to him, went in on 88 off 201 deliveries.
 
The session began with Giles misreading yet another wrong 'un from Kumble 
and getting bowled through the gate. Dawson, the number ten, however hung 
in there, gritting it out against the steady diet of flippers and wrong 'uns 
and using up space while White worked his way towards a maiden Test century. 
Trivia alert: The last time an England number seven scored a century was 63 
Tests ago, way back in 1996 when Jack Russell the wicket-keeper batsman 
did the deed -- also against India! 

Javagal Srinath, who has rarely bowled this hard, and this well, for so 
little visible reward, finally took Dawson out with a ball seaming late 
off a length -- the batsman's push found the edge and Dasgupta redeemed 
himself somewhat with a headlong dive that saw him snaffle the catch in 
front of first slip (England 391/9, the 9th wicket partnership adding 31
runs. 

A few deliveries, and runs, later, Umpire Robinson weighed in with his day's 
quota as Hoggard took a Kumble top-spinner on the pad in line with middle 
stump, with the umpire figuring there was doubt to give the batsman the 
benefit of. 

The very next over saw White take a swing at a short- pitched one from 
Srinath going down the leg side. This time, it was umpire A V Jayaprakash 
who got it wrong, failing to spot the deviation as the ball brushed glove
on the way through. 

England brought up the 400 off 861 balls -- a tremendous recovery after 
being 180/5 at one point. 

Harbhajan Singh was brought back. White skipped down the track a couple of 
paces, went low to get under the ball, and launched him over wide long on 
for a six. Two deliveries later, White was into his waltz again but this time,
the offie bowled it a bit wide and curled it in, the shot went all over it
and the ball went on to hit middle stump. White's dogged innings, which
guided the second half of the English innings and pushed the team to a 
position of strength, finally ended (121/265), and England in the 145th over,
were bowled out for 407. 

Two innings -- by Trescothick and White -- had turned it around for the 
tourists. Both benefitted from luck -- but on the credit side, both proved
quick learners, handling spin with composure and confidene and showing a 
willingness to stay out there and let the runs come. England, thus, found 
itself for once in a position to dictate terms -- the onus falling on India
to first rack up 400, then post a sizeable enough lead to give themselves a
chance of bowling England out in the third innings. 

England used pace and spin. India's openers, Dasgupta and Das, used patience 
and application -- with Dasgupta, strange though it is to say this, being the
more correct of the two openers. 

Das seemed in somewhat of a hurry, missing with a few attempted shots and 
when Dawson was introduced, pushing one on length straight to Mark Ramprakash
at silly point, only for the fielder to spill a straightforward chance. 

The England bowlers seemed to have run out of both steam and ideas when 
Ashley Giles went round the wicket, looking for some rough to bowl into.
Dasgupta, correctness personified throughout his innings, fell into the
trap, lunging into a sweep to a ball just that bit outside leg stump for
comfort, and managing only to bob it up for Nasser Hussain, standing at
short fine leg for precisely that shot, to hold with ease, ending an innings
of 17/67 by the keeper-opener (India 54/1). 

Das's innings had, all along, had more than an element of luck. The normally 
circumspect opener seemed unusually to have a touch of the fidgets about his 
batting. Andrew Flintoff -- who, both at Mohali and here has proved pacier 
than the regular seamers -- got the wicket with a ball just back of length,
to which Das pushed without getting his foot across for the edge to be 
safely held at second slip (Das 41 off 95 balls, India 64/2 in the 29th 
over. 

Ashley Giles' insistence on staying round the wicket produced some 
interesting cricket. Tendulkar, in at number four, stood there letting
delivery after delivery hit his pads. Giles appealed, in vain -- though
most of the deliveries would have hit the stumps, every one of them landed
outside leg stump. Giles finally went back to over the wicket -- and 
Tendulkar promptly laid back and cut him to get off the mark. 

India walked in, at close, on 71/2 in 36 overs, with Tendulkar on two and 
Dravid 5, to show for the 54 deliveries the two had faced between them. The 
last 8 overs of play had produced 7 runs, inclusive of four byes when Giles 
fired one down leg side. 


England's strategy is already very clear, and will set tomorrow's pattern 
-- dry up the runs with a 7-2 field with an off side bias and get the seamers 
bowling on that side of the wicket. The job for the Indians, still 336 behind,
thus becomes equally clear -- either take on the line and score runs against 
it, if you have the nous (Sachin, Laxman, Sehwag) or hold the line, and force
the bowlers to face the very real possibility that unless they actually get 
onto line of the stumps, they could end up bowling for the best part of the 
next three days. 

In other words, day three could be more about patience and nerves, than about
great bowling and good batting. 

