The feisty Ajay Ratra swung Michael Vaughan, then clinched his fists in delight. The Haryana lad had played a vital role in a tight situation as India won a thriller. 

Actually, the home side should have galloped to victory, after a dazzling opening partnership. Yes, Ratra's (29 not out, 32b, 4x4) was a priceless knock, as the Indians once again `huffed and puffed' before reaching a gettable 218, in the third ODI of the LG Cup series, at the MAChidambaram Stadium, here, on Friday. 

India triumphed by four wickets, under a new skipper, Anil Kumble, but there is plenty of unfinished work for the team management, if it wants to gaze at the `Bigger Picture.' 

On a dramatic night, England rallied well after almost being `blown away' by Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag. Nasser Hussain brought the field up - there was none outside the ring in front of the wicket for Flintoff and Hoggard. The idea was to choke the singles, build the pressure, and invite the Indians to go over the top the fling of the dice almost worked. 

England had to gamble after `man of the match' Tendulkar and Sehwag had shrunk the required run-rate. On their part, young pacemen Andrew Flintoff and Matthew Hoggard bowled with great heart, though the former, on occasion, allowed his temper to get the better of him. It was a rather unique mix of `fire and fire' when Tendulkar and Sehwag waltzed in the middle. Circumstances brought the two together and they embarked on a high-octane ride. 

Tendulkar, in particular, was in a savage mood, pulling, driving and flicking pacemen Darren Gough and Hoggard with fury. Sehwag sizzled too, unleashing a rasping square-drive off Gough and then striking Hoggard over his head. It was dangerous, it was also exciting. 

At the 15-over mark, the openers had fuelled India to 83 without loss and the 100-run mark was overcome with the 103rd ball the door was being rapidly shut on England. 

Sehwag (51, 58b, 8x4), who enjoyed a slice of luck at `the unlucky 13', when Jeremy Snape at point could not latch on to a rapidly travelling square-cut, reached his half-century by swinging offie Snape to the fence, but perished to the very next delivery, taken at the mid-wicket fence by Trescothick. 

Tendulkar (68, 79b, 10x4) appeared coasting to his 32nd ODI hundred, when he chose to turn a straight delivery from Snape and saw the umpire raising his finger. 

VVS Laxman (26), swinging across the line, and Dinesh Mongia (21), driving airily, fell in a dramatic Hoggard over, which also saw the left-hander pulling the seamer for a six. 

In his next over, Hoggard had debutant Sanjay Bangar edging to first slip and the contest had turned on its head. And had a diving Foster latched on to the chance when Badani, on two then, edged Flintoff, things would have been worse for India. The Indian score was 173 and when he was finally dismissed, snared by Gough, the total was 201. Crucial runs were indeed added during this phase.Later captain Anil Kumble and coach John Wright praised Ratra for his temperament. Kumble added it was a honour to lead India. 

Kaif replaces Laxman. 

In a direct swap of batsmen, Mohmmad Kaif has replaced VVS Laxman in the remaining three one-dayers to be played at Kanpur (January 28), New Delhi (January 31) and Mumbai (February 3). The announcement was made by Mr Niranjan Shah, secretary BCCI in Chennai on Friday. 

