The lone English fan in the stands below the press box walked past the noisy enclosure and gently removed the flag, folded it nicely and did not even bother to return to his seat. Virender Sehwag and Sachin Tendulkar were clinically masterminding the Indian chase and his hopes had receded quite early in the game. 

The gentleman's accurate reading of the English team drove him away from the game early and he would not have had a moment to grudge his act. England was given a sound thrashing by India in the fourth one-day match of the series, enabling Sourav Ganguly and his men establish a 3-1 lead. 

Overnight rain and heavy dew reduced the match to 39 overs a side, just the kind of setting the paying public adores. Action from ball one was the expectation of the audience and it received its money's worth in the shape of a `double treat' as Sehwag and Tendulkar played some gorgeous strokes to fashion India's eight-wicket win at the Green Park here on Monday. 

The setting was English-like when the teams arrived at the venue. Icy winds and an overcast sky had the English rubbing their hands in glee. But it was an invitation wrapped in deception as England opted to bat to avoid the pressure of a chase, got off to a wonderful start and then lost way. The sun broke through the clouds to bring warmth to the stands and provide rays of hope to the home team, which re-organised itself and put a halt to the English march. 

The manner in which Nick Knight and Marcus Trescothick slaughtered the Indian bowlers suggested a planned assault. The latter had to keep wickets, too, in the absence of regular wicketkeeper James Foster, down with an upset stomach. 

Ajit Agarkar, not surprisingly, was back to his wayward style and was treated with disdain, forcing the Indians on the defensive. Knight played the conventional sweep as well as the reverse sweep to unsettle the bowlers and unleashed a few furious drives in front to set up a tempo which was always going to be tough to maintain. 

The England innings revolved around the adventurous Knight with support coming in short thrusts before Graham Thorpe, who replaced Foster, prevented a self-inflicted collapse. The English batsmen had carried their aggressive approach too far with Knight alone making an impression with a rollicking innings of 74 (82b, 9x4). 

The Indian bowling looked pedestrian at one stage, but Javagal Srinath bowled a crafty spell by mixing and matching his slower ones to leave the batsmen foxed. Anil Kumble did not lose his cool and control despite getting the stick from Knight who ultimately perished to the reverse sweep. The England batting lacked the character to make a match of it on a pitch which, contrary to expectations, played true. 

Dream start. 

The total of 218 hardly posed a challenge for the Indians, what with the Sehwag-Tendulkar combination once again making a mockery of the English bowling and field placements. Sehwag, the `man of the match,' was in his element and kept up the good work with a sterling knock. That he managed to match his illustrious partner was a tribute to Sehwag's ability to play his natural game. His flair to drive through the line and pick the short ball in a flash allowed him the freedom to make runs at a rapid pace. His innings of 82 (62b, 14x4) left England demoralised. 

The second successive 100-plus stand between Tendulkar, who survived a confident appeal for a catch down the leg side off the first ball of the innings, and Sehwag was the most entertaining phase for the disciplined crowd, which, however, did not get to see the local debutant Mohammed Kaif bat. 

The Master plays second fiddle. 

Tendulkar, who reached 11,000 runs in one- day internationals during his innings, did not mind playing second fiddle, and in fact, enjoyed his partner's pyrotechnics. He also exploded at the right time to maintain the momentum of the innings. His guiding presence in the middle was the motivation for Sehwag to blast the English attack. Fittingly, it was Tendulkar (87 not out, 67b, 1x6, 14x4) who closed the contest with a towering six to the sightscreen off Jeremy Snape, the shot signifying India's domination. 

The Kanpur match was a story of Sehwag's progress as a batsman and Srinath's maturity which promises to give the Indian attack a new dimension this season. 

