The biggest problem with the Indians is this - they do not `make' things happen, they just `let' them happen. In other words, they allow the proceedings to drift, even when in a position to crush their opponents.

The turning point of the sixth ODI between India and England definitely was the England recovery from 174 for seven to its eventual score of 255 on a pitch with both bounce and turn. This should never have happened. The Indians just didn't go in for the kill.

Andrew Flintoff, considered suspect against spin, and No. 11 Darren Gough added vital, match-winning runs, displaying the kind of determination that was so sadly lacking in the Indian lower order.

The Indians batsmen's capitulation under pressure undid some brilliant off-spin bowling by Harbhajan Singh after belligerent opener Marcus Trescothick had earlier put the Indian attack to the sword.

The narrow five-run victory meant England ended up squaring the six-match series 3-3, and all credit to them. All along, it has been said in this column that the England team is an ordinary one. I still maintain that.

However, it has now been proved that, despite all the hype, India is an even more ordinary side. There is no getting away from this fact.

The difference between the two teams was that England displayed better fighting spirit. In fact, Nasser Hussain's men had the better of the series, considering that it was an inexperienced side playing away from home.

Coming to the disastrous Indian chase in Mumbai, it was hard to understand why Sourav Ganguly and Dinesh Mongia consumed so much time during their third-wicket partnership after their side was off to a sparkling start.

The duo gave undue respect to the English bowlers, and the asking-rate climbed. This was the other vital phase of the contest.

That the part-time off-spinner Michael Vaughan emerged with the best figures among the English bowlers, was a poor commentary on the Indian batsmen.

Finally, if India cannot overcome England in the familiar home conditions, then there is a lot that is wrong with Indian cricket.


